---
title: lang-python-community
tags: [community, python]
created: 2023-08-28T06:14:04.458Z
modified: 2023-08-28T06:14:28.873Z
---

# lang-python-community

# guide

# discuss-stars
- ## 

- ## 

- ## 
# discuss-fwk-python
- ## 

- ## 

- ## 

- ## 

- ## [Fast API better option than Django? : r/Python _202509](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/1npercr/fast_api_better_option_than_django/)
  - because I come from Django, but as apps grow, especially with CRUDs, it's easier to use viewsets than to create each of the endpoints in FastAPI with their functions.

- So as someone who’ve worked on django apps before and then pushed for FastAPI. There are some cons and pros to both.
  - Django is like “apple”, a nice as all-in-one opinionated solution, whereas long as you stick within the wall garden most things just work. But at times it’s slow to adopt or makes counterintuitive design decisions you have to live it (I hate the Django orm, I had to untangle so many bad queries generated by it).
  - FastAPI is sort of more like “Linux”, where its bare bones and anytime you need something on top you have to evaluate different options, your choices are more open-ended. It really just does one thing, and one thing only which is provide a simple abstraction to handle http requests. The rest is up to you: orm choice, auth choice, design patterns etc
  - FastAPI does have some clear winners for a few things, like FastAPI+sqlalchemy+alembic+jinja2+Authlib+pydantic-settings (and maybe celery) gets you what most people use Django for (so around 60% of the core features we care about in Django).
- Most Django users will still want an admin/back of house (sqladmin or starlette-admin would be the advice here) and they might be a little annoyed they have to roll their own RBAC. 

- If you're expecting your product to be large and long-lived, I would use FastAPI. It will give you the modularity you need to adapt to any unforeseen requirement. Django will continuously fight you every step of the way. Rewriting is not a huge pain, but getting painted in a corner or using workarounds for framework limitations is horrible.

- The main advantage of FastAPI over Django is not async support, but its flexibility and intuitive design. It is much easier to pick up, whereas Django comes with a steep learning curve.

- remember that you can deal with application speed in more ways than just “django vs fastapi”. tuning your app server (gunicorn, unicorn), using caching (with redis or pure python), tuning your nginx, and scaling deployments
# discuss
- ## 

- ## 

- ## 

- ## Did you know that #Python supports chained comparison? 
- https://twitter.com/driscollis/status/1719731090750071245
  - It's only valuable for niche circumstances, but it's super handy!
  - if 60 < num_variable < 100

- ## Flask today is a different framework than the one I have created. 
- https://twitter.com/mitsuhiko/status/1719716779532931466
  - But that is in many ways what it should be. 
  - It took me many years to realize that projects are not just code and I did not know how to onboard people.

- ## What is wrong with “is” in Python
- https://twitter.com/clcoding/status/1718350871610708374
- “is” operator compares address of both variable and return True if they are pointing at same address, otherwise False
  - If number is between 0 to 256, then that variable will point at fixed address only irrespective of shallow copy, deep copy or separate variable.
  - If number is >256 then it’ll create new address if they are deep copied or created separately.
  - But for larger numbers like 257, "a is b" is False because they are stored in different places in memory.

- The behavior we are observing is due to a memory optimization in Python, which is specific to small integer objects. 
  - In Python, small integer objects (typically in the range -5 to 256) are cached and reused for memory efficiency. 
  - When you assign the same integer value to multiple variables within this range, they will refer to the same memory location, which is why `is` returns `True` in such cases. 
  - 👉🏻 This is an optimization mechanism known as "interning."

- ## 🧐 TIL python does not recreate default function params each function call
- https://twitter.com/ethanniser/status/1716612454568861903
- Yep if the param is mutable this issue happens sadly
- Yea that’s known and not fixed
- One of the most annoying known quirks of Python

- ## 你们现在是用什么来管理Python版本和库依赖的？_202310
- https://twitter.com/river_leaves/status/1710489478924783778
- docker+pip
- 对于单机运行环境，例如科研、个人开发环境来说，conda固然是不错的，我也会用。但是如果需要CI/CD，conda太重了，大，慢，并且配套的生态也不是为CI/CD准备的。
